Adding a public-facing explanation of how the repo tooling works (#452)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-reference: DocumentationToolingNotes.md

# How the Office JavaScript API documentation is generated

The Office JavaScript reference documentation pages are generated from type definition files and example snippets. This process uses a blend of open source tools and repository-specific scripts. This document aims to make the processes of this repository transparent so the community can better benefit from and contribute to this content.

## Content sources

Two types of content are combined to create the Office-JS reference documentation: type definitions and code snippets. These ensure complete API coverage and give small, inline code samples.

### Type definition files

> The type definition files on [Definitely Typed](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped) serve as the source of truth our documentation. Any Office Add-in that uses TypeScript compiles against one or more of these type definition files. These also give JavaScript and TypeScript developers IntelliSense capabilities. By powering the reference documentation with these definitions, we limit the possibility of incorrect information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The type definition files on [Definitely Typed](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped) are the single source of truth for the documentation. Any Office Add-in that uses TypeScript compiles by using these type definition files. These also give JavaScript and TypeScript developers IntelliSense capabilities. By building the reference documentation from these definitions, we provide more accurate information.
```

> There are four relevant d.ts files powering different subsections of the docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are four relevant d.ts files that provide source content for different subsections of the docs.
```

- [office-js/index.d.ts](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/master/types/office-js/index.d.ts) (The Release definitions.)
  - [Excel (Release)](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/excel_release)
  - [OneNote](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/onenote)

>   - [PowerPoint](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/visio)

Reviewer: Oops, PowerPoint is linking to Visio docs.

  - [Visio](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/visio)
  - [Word (Release)](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/word_release)
  - [OfficeExtensions subsection of the Common API](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/office)
- [office-js-preview/index.d.ts](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/master/types/office-js-preview/index.d.ts) (The Preview definitions.)

>   - [Excel (Preview)](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/excel)

Reviewer: None of these links look like preview docs, so not sure if these are correct or not.

Author: The preview docs include all the previous APIs too.

  - [Outlook (Preview)](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/outlook)
  - [Word (Preview)](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/word)
  - [Common API](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/office)
- [custom-functions-runtime](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/blob/master/types/custom-functions-runtime/index.d.ts)(The Excel Custom Functions runtime definitions.)
  - [Custom Functions](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/custom-functions-runtime)
- [office-runtime](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/blob/master/types/office-runtime/index.d.ts)(The office runtime definitions for the Custom Functions platform.)
  - [Office Runtime](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/office-runtime)

> Legacy versions of the APIs have their own d.ts files. These are preserved when a new API set is released. They can also be generated using the [Version Remover tool](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-docs-reference/blob/master/generate-docs/tools/VersionRemover.ts). These old d.ts files are maintained so that in the event APIs are patched or altered, the original behavior is still documented. This is useful if you have to target an older version of the API.

Reviewer: What does "legacy" mean?

Author: Replaced with "Older".

### Code snippets

Code example snippets are added to the reference pages from two sources:

- [Script Lab Samples](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-snippets)
- [Local Code Snippets](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-docs-reference/tree/master/docs/code-snippets)

> The local snippets are in host-specific yaml files. Their content is organized by class and field, so it can be mapped to the appropriate place in a reference page. The language of the snippet (JavaScript or TypeScript) is inferred by the use of await statements.

Reviewer: Just as FYI JavaScript also uses await, and we should be using that pattern as it is considered "modern JavaScript". This could be a bug in how to recognize the language type.

Author: I'll file an issue to address this.

The Script Lab snippets are pulled from working samples. Currently, Excel and Word samples are mapped to reference document sections through a [pair of mapping files](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-snippets/tree/master/snippet-extractor-metadata). These match individual sample methods to properties or methods in the API. When the office-js-snippets repository's `yarn start` runs, [a yaml file](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-snippets/blob/master/snippet-extractor-output/snippets.yaml) containing all the mapped snippets is created. This yaml file is the input into the reference documentation tooling.

## Tooling pipeline

> Between the content sources and the final pages, the documentation content goes through four tooling steps:

Reviewer: Just a suggestion that a picture would probably be helpful here.

1. [Preprocessor script](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-docs-reference/blob/master/generate-docs/scripts/preprocessor.ts)
1. [API Extractor](https://api-extractor.com/)
1. [API Documenter](https://github.com/microsoft/web-build-tools/blob/master/apps/api-documenter/README.md)
1. [Postprocessor script](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-docs-reference/blob/master/generate-docs/scripts/postprocessor.ts)

The preprocessor takes the d.ts files and splits them into host-specific sections. It performs any cleanup necessary for the subsequent tools to properly process the data.

API Extractor converts the d.ts files into JSON data. This tokenizes all the type data, allowing for easier parsing.

> API Documenter converts the JSON data into yml files. The yml files are converted to markdown by the Open Publishing System that publishes our docs to docs.microsoft.com. API Documenter also contains an Office-specific extension that inserts our code snippets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API Documenter converts the JSON data into .yml files. The .yml files are converted to markdown by the Open Publishing System that publishes our docs to docs.microsoft.com. API Documenter also contains an Office-specific extension that inserts our code snippets.
```

> The postprocessor cleans up the table of contents and moves the yml files into the [publishing folder](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-docs-reference/tree/master/docs/docs-ref-autogen).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The postprocessor cleans up the table of contents and moves the .yml files into the [publishing folder](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-docs-reference/tree/master/docs/docs-ref-autogen).
```
